Create Sourcegraph 4.1 release post (#5838)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2022/release-4.1.md

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42177
    category: Repositories
  - description: "GraphQL request logs are now compliant with the audit logging format. The old GraphQl logging based on `LOG_ALL_GRAPHQL_REQUESTS` env var is now deprecated and scheduled for removal."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42550
    category: Admin
  - description: "Git server access logs are now compliant with the audit logging format. This introduces a breaking change: The 'actor' field is now nested under the 'audit' field."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/41865
    category: Admin
  - description: Security events are now included in the audit log by default.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42653
    category: Admin
  - description: "Security events (in the audit log) can now optionally omit internal actor traffic to reduce noise."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42946
    category: Admin
---

Sourcegraph 4.1 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

<Badge link="/batch-changes" text="Batch Changes" color="blue" size="small" />

> #### Batch Changes

Author: ```suggestion
#### Run batch changes server-side with file mounting and organizational namespaces
```

> We're iterating on running batch changes server-side as we head towards GA, and adding the last features that are missing for server-side runs to support all features of local runs.

Author: ```suggestion
We're iterating on running batch changes server-side as we prepare it to move from beta to GA. In 4.1, we're  adding the last features to bring server-side runs up to feature parity with local runs.
```

> - (experimental) You can now mount files on batch change steps containers when running server-side ([docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/how-tos/server_side_file_mounts)). This is very useful when your batch change needs to run long scripts, or binaries that change frequently and can't be built 

Author: @malomarrec Made this suggestion to give a little more detail on the change. Do you think this sentence I added is redundant?

"By mounting the files or binaries to the container, rather than baking them into it, you can iterate on them without needing to rebuild the container every time."

I am not sure how obvious that point is to users based on what was already written, but if it feels redundant, we can delete it.

into the step container.

> - Server-side runs can now be created in an organization namespace. Previously server-side runs could only be created in a user namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
- Server-side runs can now be created in an organization namespace, which allows any member of that organization to edit or delete the batch change. Previously server-side runs could only be created in a user namespace.
```

Author: Is "server-side runs" shorthand for running batch changes server-side?

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.1 release"
publishDate: 2022-10-21T10:00-07:00

> description: "Sourcegraph 4.1 introduces new features for server-side batch changes and improvements to the code navigation reference panel."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Sourcegraph 4.1 introduces new features for server-side Batch Changes and improvements to the code navigation reference panel."
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42177
    category: Repositories
  - description: "GraphQL request logs are now compliant with the audit logging format. The old GraphQl logging based on `LOG_ALL_GRAPHQL_REQUESTS` env var is now deprecated and scheduled for removal."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42550
    category: Admin
  - description: "Git server access logs are now compliant with the audit logging format. This introduces a breaking change: The 'actor' field is now nested under the 'audit' field."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/41865
    category: Admin
  - description: Security events are now included in the audit log by default to provide more visibility to security teams.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42653
    category: Admin
  - description: "Security events in the audit log can now optionally exclude internal actor traffic to reduce noise. This traffic is excluded by default, but can be enabled with the `log.auditLog.backgroundJobs` setting."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42946
    category: Admin

>   - description: Fixed a bug with GitHub code hosts that caused archived repos to be incorrectly returned when using the "public" repositoryQuery keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: Fixed a bug with GitHub code hosts that caused archived repositories to be incorrectly returned when using the "public" repositoryQuery keyword.
```
Is this "Fixed a bug with GitHub code host integration?" or just "Fixed a bug with GitHub"

Author: This refers to how we used the GitHub API - which would fall under the GitHub integration

```suggestion
  - description: Fixed a bug with the GitHub integration that caused archived repositories to be incorrectly returned when using the "public" repositoryQuery keyword.
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/41461
    category: Admin
---

<Badge link="/batch-changes" text="Batch Changes" color="blue" size="small" />

> #### Server-side Batch Changes now support file mounts and organization namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Server-side Batch Changes now supports file mounts and organization namespaces
```

> We're iterating on [server-side Batch Changes](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/4.0#high-leverage-ways-to-improve-your-entire-codebase) as we prepare to move it from beta to GA. In 4.1, we're adding the last features to bring server-side Batch Changes up to feature parity with batch changes that are run locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're iterating on [server-side Batch Changes](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/4.0#high-leverage-ways-to-improve-your-entire-codebase) as we prepare to move it from beta to GA. In 4.1, we're adding the last features to bring server-side Batch Changes up to feature parity with batch changes that are run locally.
```

Does the last batch changes look weird when it isn't capitalized? Should we say "with changes that are run locally?" and drop the batch?

Author: Yeah, it does a little bit — I'm good with that change.
```suggestion
We're iterating on [server-side Batch Changes](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/4.0#high-leverage-ways-to-improve-your-entire-codebase) as we prepare to move it from beta to GA. In 4.1, we're adding the last features to bring server-side Batch Changes up to feature parity with changes that are run locally.
```

> - You can now mount files on batch change steps containers when running server-side. This is useful when your batch change needs to run long scripts or binaries that change frequently: file mounts allow you to iterate on them without needing to rebuild the container every time. You can read more about this feature in [release post 3.41](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.41).

Author: ```suggestion
- You can now mount files on batch change steps containers using `steps.mount` when running server-side. This is useful when your batch change needs to run long scripts or binaries that change frequently: file mounts allow you to iterate on those scripts and binaries without needing to bake them into the container and rebuild the container every time they change. You can read more about this feature in [release post 3.41](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.41).
```

> - You can now mount files on batch change steps containers using `steps.mount` when running server-side. This is useful when your batch change needs to run long scripts or binaries that change frequently: file mounts allow you to iterate on those scripts and binaries without needing to bake them into the container and rebuild the container every time they change. You can read more about this feature in [release post 3.41](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.41).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When running server-side Batch Changes, you can now mount files on batch change steps containers using `steps.mount`. This is useful when your batch change needs to run long scripts or binaries that change frequently because file mounts allow you to iterate on those scripts and binaries without needing to bake them into the container and rebuild the container every time they change. You can read more about this feature in the [3.41 release post](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.41).
```

> - Server-side batch changes can be created in an organization namespace, so any member of the organization can edit or delete the batch change. Previously server-side runs could only be created in a user namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
- Server-side batch changes can be created in an organization namespace, so any member of the organization can edit or delete the batch change. Previously these batch changes could only be created in a user namespace.
```

> - Server-side batch changes can be created in an organization namespace, so any member of the organization can edit or delete the batch change. Previously these batch changes could only be created in a user namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
- Previously, server-side batch changes could only be edited or deleted by the users that created them (or site admins). Now, users can create server-side batch changes in an organization namespace, which allows any user within that organization to edit or delete the batch change, making it easier to work collaboratively on batch changes across teams.
```

> - Previously, server-side batch changes could only be edited or deleted by the users that created them (or site admins). Now, users can create server-side batch changes in an organization namespace, which allows any user within that organization to edit or delete the batch change, making it easier to work collaboratively on batch changes across teams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Previously, server-side batch changes could only be edited or deleted by the users that created them (or site admins). Now, users can create server-side batch changes in an organization namespace, which allows any user within that organization to edit or delete the batch change, making it easier to work collaboratively on batch changes with other devs.
```

- You can now mount files on batch change steps containers when running server-side. This is useful when your batch change needs to run long scripts or binaries that change frequently: by using file mounts, you can iterate on them without needing to rebuild the container every time. You can read more about this feature in [release post 3.41](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.41) where it was first introduced.
- Server-side batch changes can now be created in an organization namespace, which allows any member of that organization to edit or delete the batch change. Previously server-side runs could only be created in a user namespace.

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/how-tos/server_side_file_mounts" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<Badge link="/code-search" text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" />

#### Reference panel improvements

After launching a new version of the reference panel in 4.0 we've added a few improvements that will boost your code navigation experience.

> - References and definition results now have syntax highlighting.

Author: ```suggestion
- Reference and definition results now have syntax highlighting.
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.1 release"
publishDate: 2022-10-21T10:00-07:00
description: "Sourcegraph 4.1 introduces new features for server-side batch changes and improvements to the code navigation reference panel."
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.1"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.1/sourcegraph-4-1.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.1/sourcegraph-4-1.png
changelogItems:
  - description: Added repository sync counters to the code host details page to give visibility into external service sync progress.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/43039
    category: Repositories

>   - description: "Added a new button in the repository settings, under \"Mirroring\", to delete a repository from disk and reclone it. This prevents the need to manually delete failed repositories from the Git server."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: "Added a new button in the repository settings, under \"Mirroring\," to delete a repository from disk and reclone it. This prevents the need to manually delete failed repositories from the Git server."
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42177
    category: Repositories
  - description: "GraphQL request logs are now compliant with the audit logging format. The old GraphQl logging based on `LOG_ALL_GRAPHQL_REQUESTS` env var is now deprecated and scheduled for removal."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42550
    category: Admin

>   - description: "Git server access logs are now compliant with the audit logging format. This introduces a breaking change: The 'actor' field is now nested under the 'audit' field."

Reviewer: Does the user have to do anything for this breaking change?

Author: No, it'll just change the log format going forward. Based on the PR it looks like only one customer has these logs turned on right now. I think a changelog mention makes sense.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/41865
    category: Admin

>   - description: Security events are now included in the audit log by default.

Reviewer: Any benefit/so what statement? Would it make sense to combine this with the next one?

Author: I think we should leave them separate so that they can link to their respective PRs & provide more detail in the latter one.

```suggestion
  - description: Security events are now included in the audit log by default to provide more visibility to security teams.
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42653
    category: Admin

>   - description: "Security events (in the audit log) can now optionally omit internal actor traffic to reduce noise."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: "Security events in the audit log can now optionally omit internal actor traffic to reduce noise."
```

Is this omit or exclude? Should we add instructions for how to enable this?

Author: The link (to the PR) includes instructions on enabling/disabling via config. The logs will be excluded by default, but can be turned on with that config

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: "Security events in the audit log can now optionally exclude internal actor traffic to reduce noise. This traffic is excluded by default, but can be enabled with the `log.auditLog.backgroundJobs` setting."
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/42946
    category: Admin

>   - description: Fixed a bug with GitHub code hosts that did not label archived repos correctly when using the "public" repositoryQuery keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: Fixed a bug with GitHub code hosts that incorrectly labeled archived repos when using the "public" repositoryQuery keyword.
```
Is this updated copy still accurate?

Author: The change reads nicer but I don't think it's accurate — previously, archived repos weren't labeled at all, but now they are given an "archive" label

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: Fixed a bug with GitHub code hosts that caused archived repos to be incorrectly returned when using the "public" repositoryQuery keyword.
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/41461
    category: Admin
---

> Sourcegraph 4.1 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

Author: We can definitely jump right in.

<Badge link="/batch-changes" text="Batch Changes" color="blue" size="small" />

> #### Server-side batch changes now support file mounts and organization namespaces

Author: @abschu Yes, I believe both will make sense to a dev audience. File mounts are not a proprietary concept to us (and they're available with local batch changes) and namespaces are a common concept

> We're iterating on running batch changes server-side as we prepare it to move from beta to GA. In 4.1, we're  adding the last features to bring server-side batch changes up to feature parity with local runs.

Reviewer 2: Should we be capitalizing "Batch Changes" here at least in "bring server-side Batch Changes up to feature parity with local runs."? Or are we not capitalizing products anymore?

Author: @amieroth This one is tricky, but yes I think you're right for the latter instance:

- "Running batch changes server-side" -> referring to batch changes individually, not product name
- "server-side Batch Changes" -> product name

> We're iterating on running batch changes server-side as we prepare it to move from beta to GA. In 4.1, we're  adding the last features to bring server-side batch changes up to feature parity with local runs.

Author: Yeah, I agree — I think we should spell that out.

For SSBC -> GA, I do not know what is still planned there (@malomarrec)

> We're iterating on running batch changes server-side as we prepare it to move from beta to GA. In 4.1, we're  adding the last features to bring server-side batch changes up to feature parity with local runs.

Author: ```suggestion
We're iterating on [server-side Batch Changes](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/4.0#high-leverage-ways-to-improve-your-entire-codebase) as we prepare to move it from beta to GA. In 4.1, we're adding the last features to bring server-side Batch Changes up to feature parity with batch changes that are run locally.
```

> - You can now mount files on batch change steps containers when running server-side. This is useful when your batch change needs to run long scripts or binaries that change frequently: by using file mounts, you can iterate on them without needing to rebuild the container every time. You can read more about this feature in [release post 3.41](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.41) where it was first introduced.

Author: "them" refers to the scripts or binaries. Will add some more context

> - You can now mount files on batch change steps containers when running server-side. This is useful when your batch change needs to run long scripts or binaries that change frequently: by using file mounts, you can iterate on them without needing to rebuild the container every time. You can read more about this feature in [release post 3.41](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.41) where it was first introduced.

Author: Fixed and updated

> - Server-side batch changes can now be created in an organization namespace, which allows any member of that organization to edit or delete the batch change. Previously server-side runs could only be created in a user namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Server-side batch changes can now be created in an organization namespace, which allows any member of that organization to edit or delete the batch change. Previously server-side runs could only be created in a user namespace.
```

Will users understand what this means? I think we are trying to say that previously, only individuals could edit or delete the batch changes they personally created. Now, batch changes are created within an organization - so any user can edit or delete that change.

A few questions that come up:
- Who can edit/delete? Only admins? Any user? 
- What is the benefit of this? Does it make it easier to collaborate on Batch Changes?

Author: Fixed and updated

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/how-tos/server_side_file_mounts" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<Badge link="/code-search" text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" />

#### Reference panel improvements

> In 4.0, we launched a new version of the reference panel. In 4.1, we've added further enhancements to the panel to improve your code navigation experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 4.0, we launched a new version of the reference panel. In 4.1, we've added further enhancements to the panel to improve your code navigation experience. Here's what's new:
```

> - Reference and definition results now have syntax highlighting.

Reviewer: Is there any benefit to highlight? 

- Reference and definition results now have syntax highlighting so you can...

Author: ```suggestion
- Reference and definition results now have syntax highlighting for better readability.
```

- Behavior when using your browser's back and forward buttons has been improved. Previously, it was easy to lose track of your context while drilling into definitions and references through the reference panel. Now, every browser URL is mapped with a single URL (the focused line in the preview pane), allowing the reference panel to update accordingly when you click on the browser's back or forward buttons.

> - Clicking on any line in the preview panel will now promote the file to the main file view.

Reviewer: Any benefit to call out here?
